What is novel infectious disease?
Novel infectious disease is an infectious disease that has newly appeared in a human population. It may be caused by any infectious agents such as virus, bacteria or parasites which the human population has low or no pre-existing immunity. It may result in mortality and morbidity of different severity and may cause sustained community outbreak or proceed to a pandemic.
What is a novel coronavirus?
Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses found in both animals and humans. Some infect people and are known to cause illness ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS).
What is Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)?
“Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)” refers to the cluster of viral pneumonia cases occurring in Wuhan, Hubei Province, since December 2019. According to investigation by the Mainland health authorities, a novel coronavirus is found to be the causative agent.
What are the symptoms of COVID-19?
According to information provided by the Mainland health authorities, symptoms of the cases include fever, malaise, dry cough and shortness of breath. Some cases were in serious condition. People of older age or having underlying disease are at a higher risk of deterioration into serious condition.
What is the mode of transmission of COVID-19?
The main mode of transmission is through respiratory droplets, the virus can also be transmitted through contact.
What is incubation period? How long is it for COVID-19?
The "incubation period" means the time between catching the virus and beginning to have symptoms of the disease. Most estimates of the incubation period for COVID-19 range from 1 to 14 days, most commonly around 5 days. These estimates will be updated as more data become available.
What is the treatment for COVID-19?
The main treatment is supportive.
A novel coronavirus is found to be the causative agent of COVID-19. Is there no cure?
There is no specific treatment. However, many of the symptoms can be treated and therefore treatment based on the patient’s clinical condition. Moreover, supportive care for infected persons can be highly effective.
Is the death rate very high for COVID-19?
Number of cases in Mainland China is 80,824 cases, including 3,189 death cases and 65,541 discharged cases (last updated on March 14, 2020, 6 pm). The death rate is 3.9%.
What is the function of a mask?
Wearing mask can protect ourselves and prevent the spread of infection to others. A mask covers nose and mouth. It provides a physical barrier to fluids and large particle droplets. Surgical mask (mask) is a type of face mask commonly used. Most surgical masks adopt a three-layer design which includes an outer fluid-repelling layer, a middle layer serves as a barrier to germs, and an inner moisture-absorbing layer. Mask without the above functions is not recommended as it cannot provide adequate protection against infectious diseases transmitted by respiratory droplets.
